Hello.
Good afternoon, everyone.
Welcome to session 136.
This is going to be the Getting the
Most Out of Cocoa Binding session.
My name is Ron Luu-Saang.
I work on Core Data and Cocoa Bindings.
And Thursday is actually the best
day for me during the conference.
I'm just sleep deprived
enough that I'm having fun,
but I can still stand on both my feet.
And everybody's been to the beginning,
the primary binding session by Malcolm?
Show of hands.
Everybody's--ah, very good.
Excellent.
Everybody saw the
Core Data session this morning?
Oh, even better.
Excellent.
Okay.
The format for this session
is we're going to skip all of
the--this is model view controller.
We're going to skip over
all the beginner stuff.
Assume that you've taken the plunge,
started working with bindings at least,
and we'll go over a grab bag of-- Yeah.
--life topics that maybe we
haven't had a good chance to
tell everybody about before.
So the roadmap will look like this.
We're going to go over some details
about using the array controller,
which is the controller
that most everybody uses
at least once in their app.
We'll also talk about
Tiger's new tree controller.
And then Andreas is
going to come on stage,
and he'll bring up a list
of advanced topics related
to master-detail interfaces,
binding up selections,
like if anybody's had trouble
binding pop-up buttons.
We'll also talk about
target and action bindings,
target argument bindings rather.
And then we'll finish up the session.
I'll come back and talk
about some really short,
detailed topics, basically core data,
debugging, and error presentation.
So I'll start off with, as I said,
the controllers,
the array controllers specifically.
Everybody's probably used
the array controller by now,
has an idea of what it does.
It controls an array of objects.
And when you use the array controller,
typically you'll use at least
one of these three proxies,
one of these three accessors,
either arranged objects,
the selection proxy,
or the selected objects array.
So I'll talk about each
of these three in turn,
and then also some details about how
IB actions work with the controllers,
with the array controller,
and how they're new to Tiger.
So first, the arranged objects proxy.
If you ask an array controller
for its arranged objects,
you'll get back an object
that looks like an NSArray.
And I guess it's bad for me to
say it looks like an NSArray,
because it really is an NSArray.
But it's a special NSArray that
provides a view to the underlying
content of your controller.
This view can be sorted differently
from the underlying content,
and can often be filtered,
so it'd be a subset of the content
that your controller's managing.
So you can imagine the look of it,
sort of the content underneath,
and your controller in the middle,
providing you with this view,
this arranged objects view
of all of your content.
So when I say it's a proxy array,
that means that as you work
with the array controller,
the contents of the array will change.
So while you're changing the
filtering on the array controller,
or if you change the sort descriptors,
if your user is pressing
add and remove buttons,
or if you change the content,
the binding for the content
of the controller changes,
all these things will affect the
arranged objects proxy array.
So that means that while you're using it,
the count could actually change,
for instance,
or objected index might not be
the same from one call to another.
If you need this functionality where
things won't change underneath you,
simply make a copy of the
arranged objects proxy.
Those copies won't change underneath you.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so that's arranged objects.
The second proxy that I want to
talk about is the selection proxy.
You ask an array controller
for its selection,
and it'll return a single object.
And this single object gives
you a way to do key value coding
operations on all of the objects in
the array controller's selection.
So that means you can do
setValueForKey or getValueForKey,
just value for key, on the selection,
and it'll be interpreted based
on which objects are selected
in the array controller.
This also implies that it'll
handle multiple selection.
And something about the selection proxy,
it's KVO compliant,
so that you can actually observe
through the selection proxy.
If you add yourself as an
observer for selection.name,
you'll get notified any time the
controller's selection changes,
or any time the name of the selected
item in the controller changes.
So ordinarily, you'd see something like
this in a simple UI,
right?
A table view fed by an array controller
and a text field underneath fed by
the selection of the array controller.
In this case,
it'd be bound to selection.lastname.
But what happens when there
isn't exactly one item selected
in the array controller?
If you were to ask selection
value for key name,
The selection proxy is smart
enough to return a special marker.
This is an NS controller marker.
And ordinarily,
the views in AppKit handle
these markers in a special way.
They can convert them into
placeholders that you can
specify on a per-binding basis.
So if we look specifically at each case,
I don't know how well
you guys can read it.
In the case that there are multiple
values selected in the controller,
there's a special place for
a multiple values marker.
We also handle whether there's no
selection at all in the controller.
And if the object that's selected doesn't
respond to the key that you're bound to,
for in this case,
it doesn't return to middle name,
it doesn't respond to middle name,
for instance.
And also, in the case of if there's
no value at all to be had,
you can set a special placeholder in
the case that nil is returned from a
value-for-key call on the selection.
Other cool things that work with KVC on
the selection proxy are KVC operators.
You might have seen these
if you've looked at NSArray,
which also supports KVC operators.
This is basically asking value
for key path and using a special
key starting with an @ symbol.
Here I've shown the @average operator.
What that'll do is go through
all of the objects that are
selected in the controller,
ask for its salary,
ask it for value for key salary,
and then the controller's
selection proxy,
as well as any NSArray,
will create an average of those salaries.
Here are a couple of other
constants that we support.
If you find one that's defined
on NSArray for these operators,
the selection proxy
will also support this.
So that's using the selection proxy.
There are a couple of things
that you can do if you want
to affect how the selection is
handled on the array controller.
There are four flags.
The first two handle basically
adding and removing cases.
So selects inserted objects
and avoids empty selection.
And the last two here,
preserve selection and always
uses the multiple values marker.
Those are important if you're
dealing with thousands,
tens of thousands of objects
and large selections.
I'll go over each of these in turn,
starting with selects inserted objects.
If you check out IB and bring
up the attributes inspector
for your array controller,
you've probably seen this flag.
Selects inserted objects
does what it says.
Every time an object
is added or inserted,
it tries to select that new object.
The next one is avoids empty selection.
In this case, when the selected object is
removed from the array controller,
if there's nothing left selected,
if all of the selected
objects are removed,
basically,
the controller will try to select the
first object in the arranged objects.
The third option, Preserve Selection,
tells the controller that
if your content changes,
if the controller's content changes,
it should take a look at which
objects are selected before
the content change happens,
and then find those objects in the new
set of content that's handed to it.
This is really handy for,
actually really nice
for a general UI thing,
so that when somebody's working with a
specific object in your array controller,
if the content changes
out from underneath them,
but the same object is
there in the new content,
they won't lose their place.
When I say this has performance impact,
it's because for very large collections
of objects and for very large selections,
this could be pretty expensive
since we're scanning through the
whole new content array trying to
find the exact selected objects.
So if you turn this off,
you might find you'll get a
performance boost for very,
very large tens,
hundreds of thousands of objects
in your array controller.
And the fourth flag I want to
talk about is the Always Uses
Multiple Values marker.
With this turned on,
asking the selection proxy
value for key path for some key,
some key path,
If there are multiple objects selected,
that value for key call will always
return the multiple values marker.
This may seem obvious,
but normally when this is off,
the selection proxy tries to figure out,
well, what are the values for
each selected object?
So it'll go through every object that's
selected in the array controller,
getting its value for key,
and if they happen to match,
if everybody that's selected
has the same first name,
for example,
then it'll return that common name.
And again, the performance impact
of this should be clear.
We're going to go through
every object doing a value for
key operation and comparing.
So turning this on, turning this flag on,
could save you a lot of time when
you're dealing with large selections
and lots and lots of content objects.
So that's influencing selection.
The third accessor I want to talk
about is the selected objects accessor.
Asking an array controller for its
selected objects returns just a plain
array of objects corresponding to
all of the objects that are selected.
Pretty plain.
Now this is important because
this is a regular array with
real content objects in them.
It's not a proxy.
And so it differs in functionality
from the selection proxy,
since this is really useful for handing
off to worker classes or worker methods
or using in the target argument bindings
or for master-detail interfaces.
But since it is different
from the selection proxy,
it's important to note that you
shouldn't bind or observe through
the selected objects accessor.
It's much cheaper,
it's much faster to bind or observe
through the selection proxy.
So to give you an idea,
binding to just selected
objects to find out when all of
the selected objects changes,
that's fine.
But binding or observing selected
objects dot name can be way more
expensive than simply binding
or observing selection dot name.
Okay, so those are the accessors.
And the last thing I want to
talk about specific to the
array controller are IB actions.
I've had a lot of people asking
about this case where they've,
in their code,
gone through and changed the way,
or I'm sorry,
and added an object to the array
controller programmatically,
calling like array controller add colon.
And I think that's something
to note using these add,
insert, and remove actions.
In Tiger,
all of these are performed delayed,
so you won't see the effect directly
in your code after calling them.
It's best to use, oh, actually,
wrong slide.
I want to mention can add, can insert,
and can remove quickly.
These are really nice for binding up
UIs to make sure that you can only add,
remove, or insert when the controller
thinks it's correct.
So if there's no selection,
then you shouldn't have
your remove button enabled.
Okay, and here you can see I have a
UI where I've bound the remove
buttons enabled binding to the
controller's can remove controller key.
This is what I had wanted to
talk about in the first place.
Yes, IB actions are performed delayed
for all of the controllers.
This is new in Tiger,
and this is because we want to be
able to present sheets when something
goes wrong during these actions.
So if you want to do an add or
insert or remove in your code,
it's better and much more
performant to use these methods.
You can simply call add object,
insert object at arranged object index,
remove object at arranged object index.
There are multiple,
there's a singular and a plural
version of each of these.
And you should know that the controllers
are optimized for these cases as far
as when content underneath changes.
So it's better for you to call these
methods on the array controller than it
is to take the underlying content array,
mutate it,
and then send a KVO notification.
We'll do much less work if
you simply tell us directly,
I want to add or remove an object.
Okay,
so to recap on the array controller,
something that I skipped actually,
even though the arranged objects
proxy is liable to change as you
work with the array controller,
don't think that you
should mutate it directly.
It's not a mutable array.
So never try to mutate the
arranged objects proxy.
And similarly,
you should note that mutating
the underlying content,
you really have to send a notification
so that the array controller knows
that you've changed something.
Otherwise, you're making changes behind
the array controller's back
and it can't keep up with you.
And something else to note,
when you're putting together your
model objects that you're going
to put in your array controller,
if you're going to bind to some
property on these model objects,
it really needs to be KVO compliant.
Otherwise, things will... go wrong.
Further recap, remember,
selected objects,
binding through selected
objects is a bad idea.
Binding through selection
is a better option.
Same thing with content.
When I say that you shouldn't
bind or observe the content,
or through the content
accessor on the controller,
that's different from
when I say binding to,
or binding the content
of the array controller.
That of course is totally supported,
totally fine.
Okay, so that's the array controller.
Huh, thirsty.
Next I want to talk about the
object and the tree controller.
The slide I have for the object
controller is pretty simple.
But first, the controllers in general,
you should feel comfortable
using the object,
the array, and the tree controller.
They all kind of have the
same design principles.
You'll find selection on
all of these controllers.
The array and the tree controller
have an arranged objects proxy,
and these all work pretty much the same.
And similarly for IB actions,
all of the actions for all of these
controllers are performed delayed.
So with that,
thinking about the object controller,
something to note,
the object controller is
the superclass for the array
controller and the tree controller.
But it just manages a
single content object.
It's most useful when you're putting
together master-detail interfaces.
You can use it as a proxy
for another object in IB.
So simple class.
When we talk about the tree controller,
it, of course, manages a tree.
It manages a tree of objects.
This is a little different
from the way you work with the
array controller and NSArrays,
since we don't have an
NS tree class in Cocoa.
So instead, we ask you to simply
configure the tree controller,
telling it how to traverse
your tree of objects.
So again, the Tree Controller uses an
Arranged Objects Accessor.
It has a selection accessor that works
just the same as the Array Controllers.
And its primary use, though,
is to display objects in an
Outline View or an NS Browser.
It's really there just for Outline
View and browsers to be bound to.
And when you're using the NS3
controller with an outline view,
it should feel just like binding a
table view to an array controller.
Similar thing with the way
sort descriptors are applied.
So about that configuration thing,
all you have to do is tell us
the key path to follow for all
child objects in your tree,
in your object graph.
Optionally,
you can tell us about whether or
not a special object is a leaf node,
or you can return the count of the number
of children of a particular object.
When you give us the key paths that we
should use when traversing your tree,
you just set them up
in Interface Builder.
The children key path is
the one that's required.
But if you give us more information,
we can do more for you as far
as how to display things in the
outline view or the browser.
I want to talk a little bit more
about each of these key paths.
So you just set the key path in the tree
controller as which key path to use,
right?
So we assume that all of the objects
in your tree respond to this key path.
And it is a key path, not just a key.
And yes, it is really required.
If you see an error saying
so-and-so couldn't work with,
work without a children keypath set,
then you've forgotten
to set this keypath.
And the easiest thing to do is
usually just to write a category,
or if you have the source,
to write a simple accessor,
a cover method,
to return objects based on this key.
If by design certain objects aren't
supposed to have child objects,
you can use the
isLeafKeyPath and set that.
What Isleaf does,
the Isleaf keypath being set,
prevents the tree controller
from snooping for child objects.
If an object returns yes
for is leaf key path,
value for key, this leaf key path,
then we won't ask for child objects.
It is totally optional,
but you might want to use it just
so you can customize the way that
the outline view or the browser
shows disclosure triangles.
You can see the logic here.
It's pretty simple.
If it's a leaf, then we'll never show
a disclosure triangle,
but if it's not,
we'll always show a disclosure triangle.
While this takes precedence,
you can also set the count key
path for the tree controller.
And this way,
you can return the number of objects
that are the children of a given object.
This also affects the way disclosure
triangles are displayed in the
outline view or the NS Browser.
Basically, it's make sure that the number
of children is greater than zero.
Then it will always show
a disclosure triangle.
Side note that because you're
telling us explicitly how many
objects there are as a child,
as children for an object, this
Setting the count key path tells the tree
controller not to ever enable the add,
insert, or remove actions.
This prevents what the tree
controller thinks should be true
from being out of sync with what's
actually true in your model objects.
Okay.
And IB actions for the
NS Tree Controller,
we've added add child
as well as insert child.
These go along with the add, remove,
and insert actions that you're familiar
with on the NSArray Controller.
And we've also added the enabling keys
for can-add-child and can-insert-child.
So let's do a quick demo.
Let's have IB running.
Create a new nib.
I just want to show you how to
set up a tree controller briefly.
So here I set the children keypath.
We'll add an outline view,
resize our window.
So again,
it's supposed to feel a lot like binding
a table view to an array controller.
So you simply go to your
outline views column bindings.
Bind its value, let's say name,
let's say here diameter.
And we can also drag in a browser.
And the browser bindings
are a little different from
those for the outline view,
since there's always just one
value shown inside the browser.
So we'll bind the content to the
tree controller's arranged objects.
The content values will
be Tree Controller,
Arranged Objects,
and then the value we want to display.
And then we'll bind the selection index
paths of the browser to the selection
index paths of the tree controller.
And let's add some buttons
so we can actually add stuff.
And we can connect these.
You see here we have Add,
just like the ArrayController has.
And then there's Add Child.
And yeah, I think that's it.
Let's try that.
So you see there's no disclosure triangle
here because our logic simply says,
well, there aren't any child objects.
So not until we actually add one
will we show a disclosure triangle.
Let's see, and if you watch here,
you can do lots of
selection handling here.
You can add lots of child objects.
We all keep everything in
sync between these two.
Let's see, let's add one last thing.
Talking about the selection proxy.
Using the display pattern value,
I'll go through the selection diameter.
So I can give you an
idea of how this works.
Oh, I have to turn on
multiple selection first?
Sorry.
Okay.
There we go.
So complex math, all in IB.
It's a fantastic thing.
And that's it.
Andreas will come up and talk a little
bit more about advanced binding configs.
So good afternoon.
My name is Andreas Wendker,
and I manage the Xcode
and Core Data frameworks.
The vast majority of bindings
that you use in an application
are pretty straightforward.
You bind some kind of property of a
view to some property of a model object.
So let's say the value of a text
field to the name of a person.
But to get the most out of bindings
for the more complicated cases,
you often have to use combinations
of multiple bindings and a variety of
options for these bindings to really get,
you know,
to unleash the full power of bindings.
So I want to focus on three topics:
master-detail interfaces,
selection control bindings,
and and target argument bindings.
Let's start with master-detail bindings.
So what is a master-detail interface?
A master-detail interface is a situation
where you have two types of model
objects that are related to each other.
And you partition your user interface
in a way that you have one part in
the UI that is responsible for showing
information about one type of object.
You have a second part that is
responsible for showing information
about the other type of object.
And you're making the content of
that second part dependent on what
is selected in the first part.
So essentially,
you have a UI that you see
objects through a relationship
of a selected root object.
So just to give you some examples
that you might be familiar with.
In Xcode,
there's a groups and files view,
and if you select a group,
you see the files in that
group in the list view.
That's what we would call
a master-detail interface.
Other examples are the
iTunes playlists view,
where you select a playlist and you
see the different kind of songs.
In Mail,
the mailboxes and the messages view.
And in the core recipes application,
which is the example we used
throughout all the core data
sessions at this conference,
the groups and recipes.
All these are good examples for what
we call master-detail interfaces.
So how do you set them up with bindings?
How do you solve this kind
of problem with bindings?
It's actually pretty straightforward.
You use two kinds of controllers.
One we call the master controller,
the other one we call
the detail controller.
And then you just make the content of
the detail controller dependent on the
selection of the master controller.
And you simply do that by binding the
content of the detail controller to a key
path like selection.yourrelationshipkey.
That's pretty much all you have to do.
And then what happens is that
the detail controller starts
displaying what's in the relationship
of the selected root object.
And not only does it
display it correctly,
if you insert or remove objects
in the detail controller,
it will actually mutate the relationship.
So with the two controllers and
the content binding in between,
you can fully display and
edit relationships between
different types of objects.
The type of content bindings you
find on the controllers depend
on the type of the controller.
Not every controller has all the
content bindings I list on this slide.
But basically, depending on the type,
you find three types of content bindings.
And they're just there
for three different types,
or three different ways of
organizing your model objects.
So depending on what type
of relationship you have,
you use a different
kind of content binding.
For ordered-to-many relationships,
relationships that are
represented as NSArrays,
use the content array binding.
For unordered relationships,
unordered-to-many relationships,
which by the way are the ones that
Core Data is supporting right now,
use the content set binding.
And for to-one relationships,
use the content object binding.
It's all pretty straightforward.
One thing that you might wonder about is
that if you know our controller classes,
you know that we have
controllers for single objects,
for arrays, and for trees.
We don't have a controller for a set.
There's no NSSet controller.
Instead, you have a content set binding
on the array controller.
Why is that?
Well, the answer is that whenever
you go into the UI,
you really want to have some kind
of a stable order for the objects.
It's really terrible for the user
to see a UI where the order of
the objects constantly changes.
So the first thing you want to do
if you have an unordered chip is
you want to apply some sort order
for it and then stick with it.
And that's what the array
controller gives us.
If you bind to a set and you
populate the controller with a set,
then it will just put it in a
fixed order and will try to keep
that order as stable as possible.
Let's look at how this looks in IB.
So what you see here on the screen is
a typical Nib file with one window.
And on the left side in that window,
you see an outline view for groups.
And on the right side of that window,
you see a table view, let's say,
for recipes.
And then in the file window down there,
you see that there are
also two controllers,
a tree controller for the groups and
an array controller for the recipes.
What you see in the inspector there
right now is the content binding
of the recipes detail controller.
And as you can see,
it's bound to the groups controller
with the key path selection.recipes.
So our recipes controller always shows
all the recipes selected in that group,
all the recipes of the selected group.
And then what the screen
doesn't really show you is that,
of course,
you would have additional bindings
for the right side of that window
that shows the recipes that
go to the recipes controller.
And you would have additional
bindings from the tree view
to the groups controller.
So one interesting case that you
will probably encounter is that
the user might select multiple
objects in the master controller.
And if you followed what Ron said
about the selection proxy,
then you know that the master
controller will then indicate
multiple selections through the
multiple selection marker object.
So when the detail controller
asks for its content,
then all it gets is a marker object,
and it really doesn't know what to do.
So by default,
you just empty the detail controller.
But we can do a lot better
if you help it a little bit.
There's a second binding that is
an alternative binding for the
multi-selection case that you can bind.
So there's a chance for you to
provide a separate key path,
a separate value transformer,
or the other types of options
you find on bindings just for
this multiple selection case.
And why this is so nice is,
the reason why this is so
nice is that for the arrays,
like Ron also mentioned already before,
we have operators that you can put in the
key path to do something with the values.
And there are a bunch of interesting
operators for this case here,
which are listed in the table.
And I won't read them
all to you in detail,
but essentially they are operators
to form a union of multiple arrays,
of multiple sets.
So what you can do is you can just
take all these selected recipes
of all groups and form them all
together in one large array that's
then used for the detail controller.
Let me give you a
concrete example of that.
So like before, we would bind the content
set to selection.recipes,
and the second binding,
content array for multiple selection,
we would bind to
selection.atUnionOfSets.recipes.
So now even in the multi-selection case,
you still have a good array that you can
use to populate the detail controller.
Thank you.
There are two more options that I'd like
to point you to for the content bindings.
and one is called Handles
Content as Compound Value.
The other one is called
Selects All in Setting Content.
And those two options are a little
bit on the complicated side,
so I try to cover them
with one slide each.
For the first one,
Handles Content as Compound Value.
That option is typically used
when you have a value transformer
on your content binding.
Why would you do that?
Well, sometimes you want to edit
something as an array in the table
view with an array controller,
but you are not actually storing the
data as an array on the master object.
I've seen people using value
transformers to take an NSDictionary and
transform the dictionary,
the key value pairs of the dictionary,
into an array of individual line
items that are then displayed
and added in an array controller.
Other things I've seen is that
people are just archiving the
entire array and storing it as
an NSData on the master object.
So the display part of that
works just fine without any help.
You just use the value transformer,
you apply it to the entire content,
you get an array,
you can display everything.
Now for the editing part,
the array controller will
actually try to mutate the
relationship in the intended way,
which is to use the key value
coding array mutator objects.
So it will ask the master object
mutable array value for key,
which gives us an array proxy
to mutate the relationship.
And then we'll start inserting
and removing and adding
objects to that array.
Unfortunately,
if you don't store the data as
an array on the master object,
that will, of course, fail.
So with this option here,
Handles Content as Compound Value,
you can force the controller to
bypass the normal relationship
manipulation mechanism and instead
just use simple set and get methods,
just normal key-value coding,
just set value for key
and get value for key.
So then what happens is
that the entire array,
the entire content, if it's mutated,
is taking its sense of the value
transformer and just a simple set
invocation on the master object.
So the rule of thumb is pretty
much whenever you use a value
transformer for the content binding,
you want to set this option.
The other one is selects
all when setting content.
The name is actually pretty obvious.
All it does is that whenever the
controller is populated with new objects,
it will select them all.
And this is useful in a
variety of situations.
And the most common one is probably
when you write an inspector.
So let's say you're in an
application like Sketch.
You have multiple documents open,
and each document has a bunch
of graphics objects that you
want to edit in an inspector.
And you want to, of course,
allow editing multiple graphics
objects at the same time.
So what you would probably do is
you would go into Interface Builder,
create a new Nib file,
and start creating your inspector window.
So you'd place text fields
for the x and y coordinates.
You would put text fields
for width and height.
And you place an array
controller in that window,
or in that Nib file,
to which you bind the text fields.
And then essentially what you do
is that you just need to make sure
that the array controller is always
populated with all the selected
objects in the current main window,
in the current document.
And then together with this option here,
the controller will make sure that
all the objects are always selected,
which means that all the text fields
that you bound to the selection
in the array controller will
always edit all objects in there.
So to give you the key path
that a lot of people have asked
me for for this situation is,
so you're in a
document-based application.
You would bind to the
NSApplication object,
and you would use the
key path main window,
which gives you the current document,
.delegate,
which is the actual NSDocument object.
Let's assume that one
has a controller outlet.
That's the third component.
And then you just bind to the
selected objects of that controller.
So the key path main window, .delegate,
.controller,
.selected objects will make sure
that your array controller is
always populated with the currently
selected items in the main document.
Let's talk about selection
control bindings.
The typical situation is that you
have some kind of pop-up button,
and you want to manage the selected
item in that pop-up button,
usually to modify it to one relationship.
So in some form, you want to control the
selection in the pop-up,
typically based on the
represented object,
maybe based on the tag or the
index of the items in the pop-up,
or maybe just by display value.
In addition to controlling the selection,
of course, you need to make sure
that the actual values,
the available choices,
are populated into the pop-up button.
And you can do this in two ways.
You can either do it manually in IB,
just by going there and typing
all the different values.
More commonly,
you can dynamically set or dynamically
determine the content runtime.
So the bindings,
the pop-up buttons have two types
of bindings to solve these problems.
There's a set of selected bindings
that use to control the selected item.
And there's a set of content
bindings that use to populate
the available choices.
And of course, all that works,
like with all the bindings
for the various controls.
It works with standalone controls,
so a simple NS button, pop-up button.
It also works with cells and table views.
So if you put a pop-up button
cell in the table view column,
you can actually populate
each pop-up in each row with
a different kind of content.
So the four selected bindings that are
available are pretty straightforward.
Selected object controls the selection
on top of the represented object.
Selected tag, selected index,
controlled by tag and by index.
Selected value controls
it by display value,
by the title of the menu
items in the pop-up button.
Now to populate the pop-up
with the available choices,
use a combination of
multiple content bindings.
There are three of them-- content,
content values, and content objects.
They all sound very similar.
The ones you choose pretty
much just depends on how your
model objects are organized.
And there are four cases
that are interesting.
Case one is,
you simply have an NSArray of strings,
and you just want to put
all these strings as display
values into the pop-up button.
So for that,
you have the content values binding.
Simply bind the content values
to that array of strings,
and then they will show up there.
Now,
since you don't give us anything else,
just strings,
there won't be any represented objects.
But at least you can still
use the selected tag,
selected index,
and selected value bindings.
The selected object binding won't
be very meaningful because there are
no represented objects behind that.
The second case is that you have
an array of represented objects.
For that, you use the content binding.
So you bind the content to
the represented objects.
There's a menu item for
each object in that array.
And since we don't know any better,
we just use the description method of
the objects to create a title to display.
So now,
what you have is you can actually use
the selected object binding to edit
your relationship directly because you
have a meaningful represented object.
Now the most common
case is the third case,
which is the case where you have
an array of represented objects,
but each represented object also
has a dedicated key that you can
use to display a nice value for it.
So you could have an
array of person objects,
and each person has a name.
So in this case,
you'd bind two bindings at the same time.
You'd bind first the content binding,
and you'd bind the
content values binding.
The content binding points to
the array of represented objects.
The content values binding,
on top of that,
points to the display values.
So this gives you actually
the best of both worlds.
You can use the selected object
binding based on the represented
objects from the content,
and you can still have a
nice display value in the UI.
So a concrete example,
you have an array controller
with person objects.
You would bind the
content to just the-- oh,
so you have an array
controller with person objects,
and you want all the person objects
to show up in the pop-up button.
So you bind the content to the arranged
objects of your person controller,
and the content values to
the arranged objects .name.
The only limitation here is that you
need to be able to reach the display
value through the represented object.
You can't have two parallel arrays,
one that stores all the
represented objects,
one that stores all the display names.
You need to make sure that the
display name can be reached through
the represented object itself.
Case number four is a little different.
In case number four,
you store the represented
object and the name in parallel
within a container object.
So typically you have an
array of dictionaries,
and each dictionary has
two key value pairs.
One for the name, for the display value,
and one for the represented object.
So in this case you
bind all three bindings.
Content points to the
array of dictionaries.
Content values points to the
display property within there.
and content objects that
represented objects.
So again, you can use the selected object
binding because we have a
meaningful represented object.
This time, though,
the represented object is based
on the content object's binding,
not on the content binding.
And you also have a nice display value
through the content values binding.
And the same limitation applies.
The content values and content
object bindings need to be
based on the content bindings.
You need to bind it to the same object.
And the key path for the content
binding needs to be the start of the
key path for the other two bindings.
So here's a table that
summarizes all this.
I'm not going to read it again,
but if you ever kind of
get a hold of the slides,
this might be good reference
material for the future.
There are a few more options I want to
point you to for the content binding.
The most interesting one is the
inserts-null-placeholder binding option.
Inserts-null-value.
God, I can't even read this.
Inserts-null-placeholder.
In combination with the null
placeholder value that you can
also enter in the inspector,
what this does is that then the binding
will create an explicit item in the
pop-up to represent the null state.
So you pretty much can create a menu item
that the user can choose to explicitly
deselect the value for the relationship.
Now we have the same kind of bindings
that I just described for pop-up buttons,
also for NSMatrix.
So you can have an NSMatrix
with radio or checkbox buttons.
And then we will create the
individual items in the matrix for
you based on the content bindings.
And you typically want to place
the matrix in a scroll view
because you don't know exactly
how many items you will have.
For the selected bindings,
it will depend on the mode of that matrix
what kind of bindings you have available.
In the default mode, the radio mode,
where just one set can
be selected at a time,
you have the exact same bindings
as the pop-up button has.
But if you put the matrix in
the highlight or list mode,
which then allows multiple selections,
you get two different bindings.
You get selected objects
and selected values,
which represent arrays of all
the currently selected items.
Let's talk about target
argument bindings.
The situation I believe a
lot of us are in every now
and then is that we're in IB,
and we want to invoke some arbitrary
method on some arbitrary object with
some arbitrary number of arguments.
Now, unfortunately,
IB doesn't really give us a good,
convenient way to do that,
at least not in the traditional
form without bindings.
So typically in the past,
you had to go ahead and create
some target action method,
which means that you're limited
to just one single argument
with the sender of the argument.
You would create a bunch of outlets to
the different kind of UI elements that
you want to read the arguments from.
And then you go on your files owner,
implement that method there.
And it's kind of a bit of ugly
code to kind of put all this
together just to invoke a method.
So fortunately, with bindings,
there's a simpler solution.
You will use a combination of target
and argument bindings on an NMS button.
And there's pretty much three steps.
First of all,
you bind the target binding,
and it will identify the object
the method is invoked on.
And as part of the target binding,
you specify an option,
which is the selector name of
the method you want to invoke.
And then as the third step,
for each argument of
that method invocation,
you use an argument binding.
The argument binding is one of these
funny bindings that are enumerated.
So once you bind the first one,
you get a second one, argument two.
Once you bind that one,
you get the next one, argument three,
and so on.
In addition to NSButton,
the target argument bindings,
we also implemented the same
functionality for double clicks
on NSTableViews and OutlineViews.
The bindings are named
a little differently.
They are called DoubleClickTarget
and DoubleClickArgument,
but they behave exactly the
same way as the NSButton target
argument bindings behave.
So let's look at an example.
Let's say you want to invoke a
method open info panels for groups
on your application delegate.
And you want to take the argument,
the groups,
from the selection of a table view.
So there's two bindings.
The target binding is bound to
the shared application instance
with a delegate key path.
So the delegate of the application
is the receiver of the method.
And the argument binding is to
the array controller that you'll
probably use for that table view.
And simply the key path selected objects.
And then when the button is pressed,
you invoke this method on the
application's delegate with the currently
selected items in the group's controller.
So an IB that would look like this,
you would have a button
with a table view,
and then you'd have two bindings.
As you can see,
the target binding is bound
to the shared application,
keypath delegate,
and the argument binding is bound to the
group's controller for selected objects.
Another more complicated example,
let's say you want to invoke a method,
add keywords to pictures,
show progress indicator,
just because I had to
make a Boolean argument.
So you would want to invoke
that on a files owner.
The keywords are just an array
of strings that you want to
read from one table view,
the currently selected
strings in one table view.
The picture objects are selected
objects in another table view,
and maybe that flag you want
to read from the user defaults.
So there are four bindings.
Target binding goes to the files owner.
And interestingly,
you can use self as a key path.
So you don't have to actually
go to another object.
You can just use self as key
path to invoke the method
on the files owner itself.
The first argument binding goes to
the array controller for the keywords.
You would probably use something like
selected objects dot name as a key path.
For the argument two binding,
you would bind to the other array
controller for the picture objects.
Selected objects would be your key path.
And for the last argument binding,
you would bind to the shared
user defaults controller.
And the key path would be something like,
values dot my default name.
So as you can see,
you have a lot of flexibility
with how you pull the different
arguments together and to what kind
of object you actually send it.
Everything you can reach through a
key path on an object that you can
bind to is a potential target or a
potential argument for the method.
So the selector name is in
the-- you specify in the
options area of the bindings,
but it's really not an option.
It's really a required option.
Your application won't be very
happy if you forget listing this.
For the argument bindings,
there are a bunch of interesting options.
The first one I want to point
out is the value transformer.
Most of you probably know that
the value transformer is available
for pretty much all bindings.
It's particularly useful
for the argument bindings,
because often you don't have control
over the APIs of the objects you
want to invoke your method on.
So the value transformers might
just be the right choice to kind
of transform the representation of
the argument into the form that the
receiver of the method expects it.
There's an option, allows null argument.
So here you can decide whether
you actually want to allow the
method invocation if one of
the arguments is still null.
And in combination with the other option,
conditionally sets enabled,
which also is on by default,
the binding will even automatically
enable and disable the button based
on the availability of the arguments.
So you can pretty much say
that as long as the user hasn't
specified an argument yet,
you don't want to allow the invocation,
the button should be disabled.
And then the last option is invoke
separately with array objects.
This is a little more specialized.
But if you don't have control
over the API of the receiver,
you might not have an API that
takes multiple objects.
But you still want to allow an
invocation for all the objects in
some selection of the table view.
So then you can pretty much
split up the invocations into
one invocation each per object.
And that's what you can
use this option here for.
And as a last step,
before I hand back to Ron,
I'd just like to quickly give you a
demo for how that could look like.
So here's an application
that I have up and running.
It's based on the
Core Data Recipes example,
but that doesn't really matter.
It was just the most convenient
way for me to fit in the data here.
So as you can see,
I have a master-detail relationship,
recipes in the upper table,
and then ingredients in the bottom one.
Depending on what I select
in the upper table,
the content changes in the detail table.
And as you can see,
it handles multiple selectors
nicely by showing all ingredients
of all selected recipes.
I have a matrix here with
the selected cuisines,
and I can just go edit that.
As you can see, there are pop-up buttons.
In the table view,
we use the abbreviation
of the measurement.
And down here, we have the full name,
like cup, tablespoon, ounces.
So there's a bunch of pop-up buttons.
And we even created a little method
on the file zone that we want to
invoke that will kind of tell us
how much we have to go shopping
for for all the selected recipes.
So for 10 servings,
I can click on this button to get
the list of other things I need
to buy into this pop-up button.
So I wouldn't say this
makes a lot of sense,
but it's a good example.
So let's take a look at the Nib file.
So there are a bunch of controllers
in here for all the different
kind of areas in your UI.
There is the recipes controller,
which is the master controller.
You have an ingredients controller.
And if you look at the bindings here,
you can see that I bound the
content set to the ingredients,
selection of ingredients of the recipes.
And I also bound the second alternative
binding for the multi-selection case.
And I'm using this
union of sets operator.
The other thing that might be
interesting is to show the pop-up button.
There's content and content values.
So I can show all the measurements.
The measurement objects are
the represented objects.
The name of the measurement
is what the display value is.
And I also bound the
selected object binding.
So I'm using all three
bindings together to,
first of all, populate the pop-up button,
and to secondly control the selection.
And here for the content values,
I'm using the name
right on the table view.
I'm using the abbreviation,
so you can even tune this a little bit.
And then last, for the button here,
as you can see,
the target goes to the files
owner with the key path save.
So we invoke the method on
the files owner with all the
different kind of arguments.
And just to show you the code for that--
it's not particularly interesting--
but here's the method declaration.
So I can pretty much invoke arbitrary
methods on my files owner with
all different kinds of arguments.
And that's all I wanted to show you.
And with that, back to Ron.
Thanks, Andreas.
It's over there.
Sorry.
I love that demo.
Okay.
So everybody knows
everything about content,
objects, values, content,
content objects, content values,
content value objects.
But I think you did a really
good job explaining that.
Okay,
so going back to the rest of our talk,
just go over a couple of small things,
starting off with the changes
we've made to controllers in
order to work well with core data.
The main thing we've
done is now the object,
the array,
and the tree controller have a few new
features like having an entity mode,
as well as the content set binding
that we've seen throughout the show.
And also,
controllers can fetch content themselves,
so you don't have to programmatically
set a controller's content.
They can fetch from a
managed object context.
A little detail about
each of these things.
First, the content set binding.
The content set binding really
only makes sense for the
array and the tree controller,
so it's available there.
And the reasoning behind it is, first,
in core data,
relationships aren't modeled as arrays.
They're supposed to be unordered
and not allow duplicates.
So they're best modeled as NS sets.
So in order to use an
NS set with the controllers,
we came up with the content set binding.
What happens is we'll convert sets
into whatever is appropriate for
the controller you bound it with.
So arrays for the array controller and
trees of objects for the tree controller.
If you try to bind content
set and you pass in an array,
or you bind content array
and you pass in a set,
the controller will yell
at you and tell you this.
So you can check your debug or run
log and look for this if something in
your UI isn't working as you expected.
There are four steps to configuring
a controller to fetch its content.
Four simple steps.
The two that are listed here
at the top are required.
The two at the bottom, of course,
are optional.
The first required step is setting
an entity name for the controller.
All you have to do is switch the
controller into entity mode as opposed
to class mode that you're probably
used to and give it an entity name.
This entity is,
the name of this entity tells it which
objects to fetch from its data store,
and it also defines which entity
of objects will be created
during insert or add actions.
Step two, if you're going to make a
controller fetch its own content,
is give it some place to fetch from.
So typically people will just
bind the managed object context
of your controller to files owner
or some common place in your nib.
The first of the two-- actually, yeah,
I should mention,
when new objects are created by
the controllers in entity mode,
normally they're just created and
inserted into a managed object context.
But they're not assigned to
any store that you would,
by default, have control over.
If you have multiple stores hooked up
to the coordinator of your application,
We'll just go through and find
the first store that's writable,
and your new object will be
inserted into that store.
And the same,
a similar thing happens during fetches.
The controller just fetches
from all available stores,
if you have multiple stores
hooked up to your coordinator.
If you want to customize
this functionality,
you should consider subclassing
the array or the tree controller
or the object controller,
and override new object in the
case of when you want to assign
objects to a specific store.
You can override this and simply
assign the object to a specific store.
Or in your subclass,
you could override fetch with request,
as you see here,
and set the affected stores for
the fetch request that's passed
in when you override this method.
Okay.
Step three,
one of the optional steps for having
a controller fetch its content,
is setting a fetch predicate.
This is something that you'll only see
when the controller is in entity mode.
Normally, on the
You're right.
You'll see the keys that the
controller has when it's in class mode.
Oops.
When it's in entity mode,
you'll see a box down here for editing
the fetch predicate that's used when
the controller fetches its content.
So if you notice,
we've talked about fetch predi--
about predicates twice in this talk,
both in relation to the array
controller's filter predicate,
and also now for the more
general case of a fetch predicate
on an-- on an NS controller.
That means there are two
places to set a predicate,
but they're not used in the same way.
The fetch predicate--
The fetch predicate affects which
objects from your stores become
part of the controller's content.
So this is the underlying content
array for the array controller.
The filter predicate is set separately
and affects which objects show
up in the arranged objects array.
So remember that proxy array
that we talked about earlier.
So this should emphasize that
the arranged objects is always
going to be a subset of the
array controller's content array.
Okay, back to setting up the
controller to fetch.
You can optionally enable
what we call live updating.
This means that whenever the
managed object context sends
out its notifications for a
new object has been inserted,
a new object's been deleted,
or an existing object's been deleted,
or some object's been updated,
some value's been updated,
the context normally
sends out a notification.
When the controller is set up to
listen for these notifications,
it'll automatically update its content,
and you don't have to worry about it.
Everything that happens in the managed
object context will be reflected
immediately in the controller.
And even though we call
it enabling live updates,
the checkbox for it is called
automatically prepares content.
Normally in class mode,
automatically prepares
content tells the controller,
well, when we start up.
In Awake from Nib,
we'll create one of these,
for in this case,
mutable dictionary automatically
if our content is nil.
That guarantees that there's
always something there.
That's why we started off with
automatically prepares content.
But now that we have
entity mode controllers,
we can reuse this flag.
And during a wake from nib,
if automatically prepares
content is set to yes,
then the controller will
automatically fetch immediately
right there in a wake from nib.
And this also triggers the live
updating functionality I talked about.
This really provides a
lot of functionality.
It's a lot less work for you to
keep objects in your context in
sync with what's in your controller.
So that is the content set
and the entity mode thing and
fetching the content of the match.
Okay, all right,
so we're done with that part.
Next I wanted to talk about
a couple of small items.
First, the enabled, hidden,
and editable bindings we
call availability bindings.
And then we'll mention something about
how errors are presented with bindings
and then some tips on debugging.
So our availability bindings,
we mentioned these earlier when
I talked about the can add,
can remove keys on the array
controller or the tree controller.
You can bind the enabled
binding of some object,
usually a text field or
a button or an NS menu,
to your controller or some object.
And as soon as you bind enabled,
a second binding becomes available,
enabled two.
These are what we call
enumerated bindings.
You saw these also in
Andreas' talk related to the
target and argument bindings.
What happens is,
for the enabled and the editable cases,
we'll AND all of the results
for those bindings together.
So only if all of the enabled bindings
return "yes" for a control will
we actually enable that control.
And it's OR-ed for the hidden case,
so that only if at least one of
the hidden bindings returns "yes,"
then the object will be hidden.
Now on to error presentation.
If you're familiar with the
way commit editing works,
this should be very interesting
for you because now with
commit editing with delegate,
we can present sheets when something
goes wrong committing edits from the UI.
What happened in Panther is if you
sent the message commit editing to
a controller and some text field,
for instance, was editing a bound value
for that controller,
telling that controller commit editing
would have it tell its view that it
should commit all of its edits as well.
And if anything went wrong,
we'd just return no.
This wasn't so great for
presenting errors since we'd
always present them modally.
Now using the present error
API that's new for Tiger,
we can present errors in a different way.
Now on to error presentation.
If you're familiar with the
way commit editing works,
this should be very interesting
for you because now with
commit editing with delegate,
we can present sheets when something
goes wrong committing edits from the UI.
tiger, and this new method,
commitEditingWithDelegate,
bound controllers as well as
NSManagedObjectContext can
respond to this call by presenting
sheets if something goes wrong,
commit and edit in the related editor.
The last thing I want to
talk about is debugging.
A lot of people have brought up
debugging as a source bot for bindings.
And really,
the most common thing that will happen is
somebody's bound an incorrect key path.
And usually you'll see something,
an error like this in your run log.
Another common error for the core
data side of things is you're
using a controller in entity mode,
but you haven't given it a managed
object context to work with.
And then the controller will
yell at you and say this.
But if you want to get some
more debugging information,
for Tiger we've added a default
called the NSBindingDebugLogLevel.
There's only one debug log level so far,
so you can just set it to one.
And watch your debug log or your run log,
and you'll see some more detailed
information whenever an undefined
key exception is raised.
You'll see some information basically
the key path that was bound to
when the exception was raised,
as well as the controller
involved in the binding,
and the object that was
bound to the controller.
So this will help you hunt down where
a bad key path or a bad binding was
set up a lot faster in your nib.
And for more information,
check out the sample code.
Oh, OK.
Related sessions to this.
Tomorrow morning,
come in bright and early
and give us your feedback.
We're really excited to
see so many people here.
And we all want to hear your ideas,
your feedback.
So there's a Cocoa and
Core Data feedback forum.
And tomorrow afternoon,
there's advanced core data usages.
It looked like everybody here
was also interested in core data.
And I think we might have already
missed writing Cocoa Automator Actions.
Oh, no, that's coming up.
So you can also check that out,
because Automator Actions in
Cocoa makes use of bindings as well.
And next.
Who to contact?
You can email Matt all of your ideas,
all of your gripes,
all of your feedback in general.
And please, use Cocoa Dev.
We take a look at that.
We try and help people on the list there,
too.